
Problem Set 00
==============

URL: https://courses.edx.org/courses/course-v1:MITx+6.00.1x_7+3T2015/courseware/Week_1/Problem_Set_1/

In this course, you will be using a programming environment to write Python programs. We recommend you install and use the Enthought Canopy Python Distribution. If you are taking this course again and have an older version of Canopy installed, we urge you to update to the latest version from the Welcome screen or the Help menu or to uninstall and reinstall the newest version. 

Note that previous offerings of this course used IDLE as a programming environment. IDLE is mentioned in some of the lectures but you can use Canopy instead. The course staff can offer support if you use IDLE or Canopy.

 
Setting Up Your Environment

This initial problem set is simply intended to help you install and test your Python computing environment for use in 6.00.1x this semester. There is no graded assignment for this problem set, but you should still do it as soon as possible. By the end of this problem set, you should be able to execute simple Python commands and expressions, create a file with Python code, and run it in a Python environment.

Installing On Your Own Machine

If you have the ability to install files on your own machine, we strongly recommend that you do so. This will give you the ability to complete your assignments - and future projects after 6.00.1x - on your machine, at any time, regardless of Internet connectivity.

For this course, we will be using Enthought Canopy Python Distribution, which you can download here.

NOTE: Do NOT install any version of Python 3. In 6.00.1x, we will be using Python version 2.7, and ask that you do the same. If you use any other version of Python 3, your solutions will not be compatible with our tutor platform. Some of your answers will be incorrect. Enthought Canopy provides the proper version of Python, so you don't need to worry about this if you are using Enthought. 

How to get started with Enthought

Enthought Canopy includes:

    all of Python 2.7
    many common scientific Python packages (libraries)
    and an application, also called Canopy, which allows you to edit and run Python code.

This Canopy application is similar to Python's built-in Idle editor, but is easier to use, more powerful, and suitable for use in your future Python projects.

Your first task is to download Enthought Canopy onto your machine and install it. By clicking on the download link above, you will be taken to a Canopy download web page, which should recognize your operating system and provide the correct version. The next three pages in this problem set present specific instructions for Windows, Mac, and Linux operating systems. Choose the instructions for your computer’s operating system and read on!

If you have questions about installation, post a question in the forum. For general questions, post in the forum at the bottom of this page. For questions specific to your operating system, please post in the forum at the bottom of the specific page that discusses installation instructions for Windows, Mac or Linux. 

The course officially uses Canopy, but If you have other IDEs that you have used and recommend, post a description and a link to them in the "Related Resources" section below.